# Intro 

By Engaging with the screens you will be able to: 

- Explore classic data analytics or data mining approach 
- Describe Oracle Data Mining (ODM)
- Explain Oracle Data Mining PL/SQL API 

## What is the classic data analytics approach 

The classic data analytics process follows the principle of ‘move the data to the analysis tool’. You will go into this concept in more depth on the following screen. 

In this approach the data is extracted from the data source whether that be a DB or else where, then it is transformed into a CSV file and transported for further analysis

After this it is transformed it is processed using various data analysis tools. 

## Potential issues with classic data analytics process 

### File/ Memory Size 

Usually there is a 2GB limit on CSV files, hence what cannot fit into the memory cannot be processed. 
This limitation of file/ memory size hinders the processing of extracted data. 

### Data Environment 

Data is extracted and taken out of its environment (for example a secure database). This poses a threat when dealing with secure data. 

### Data Security 

There is a potential risk of data leak/ misuse/ mishandling resulting in a breach of GDPR because the data has left the protection of its environment or that the data has been decrypted for processing by an external tool 

### Data conversion or transformation 

Often the data analytics process involves the conversion or transformation of data to make it suitale for the analysis tools.
This is because different tools require data in certain formats (For example, CSV, ARFF, PDF and so on)
